>> Mike North: When dealing with theming
you can have two kinds of themes
that work.
One is a color theme.
And I will show you what that looks like.
So I just did shift command P and
then if you just search for a theme,
you will see you get to color theme and
color icon theme
>> Mike North: And so,
you can actually go up and down, and
it should update sort of in real
time with whatever you are asking for.
>> Mike North: You
also get a file icon theme.
And let's
>> Mike North: Let's look at how
that appears.
Notice I've got icons to the left here.
And just because I've named these files in
a particular way they get a special icon.
Like client has a tiny little laptop and
a mobile device..
Server has a big tower.
Box there.
Webpack has its own icon, and
those are their own themes.
>> Mike North: And you can pick what you
want, so you see this is like the one
that ships the Visual Studio Code.
This is a ridiculously popular one,
VSCode Icons.
It probably is by far the most
downloaded extension.
It's got like 3 million Downloads total
which is huge for something like this.
So you get to pick what you want,
setti is something that's sort of is a,
it was popular with,
>> Mike North: I think that
comes from Adam but, you see,
we've got, like, some file icons here.
The folders don't get icons,
it's a little bit more, sort of,
minimal, if what I had going on there
was a little bit too busy for you.
So, I was going to go through, like,
the ability to define your own theme, so
that we could each build our
own little extension and
install that as our own color scheme.
The good news is you don't
have to do that anymore.
As of two weeks ago,
you can do this right in your settings,
you can pick a base theme
that you're interested in.
And you can do whatever you want in
terms of colors right there in your own
configuration, without having to worry
about making it a separate project that
you then push to the marketplace, and
then bring into your Visual Studio Code.
And it's like Much less
hassle to just do it.
And if you wanna share it,
just share your settings files or
share the subset that's just your colors.
Again, tons of options here for
customizing things.
So I'm not gonna tell you the entire list,
IntelliSense will help you out a lot.
Let me show you.
>> Mike North: So
here I've got,
>> Mike North: Let's
do workbench.colorCustomizations, and
then in here I'm going to delete that.
That is extra.
>> Mike North: We need a comma there.
So here you can see we've got a whole
array of options to pick from.
So we could do something really obvious,
editor.background, and
we'll make it,
>> Mike North: Bright
red.
>> Mike North: And
it takes effect immediately.
And if I remove that and
save, It goes away.
Really easy to do,
one that I have all the time in place.
Actually, I don't do much
with color customizations.
I do something else, though.
And that is
a Syntax Highlighting Customization.
So what you're seeing here, this is a
representative example of different things
you can do with syntax highlighting.
And you see starting from the top
we've got comments and types.
So that would be any of the types
that we were working with before,
like constructors, you would see those
colored in a particular way with
that color, right, comments,
it would brighten up.
This is one that I have for real in my
user settings all the time, because most
developers want the comments to sort
of be A secondary aspect of their code,
meaning it doesn't compete for
attention with the function itself.
Unless you're training people and
presenting on a projector all day,
at which point the comments
are probably very important.
So I will pick a theme and then make sure
the comments are appropriately emphasized.
So, these are examples of sort
of basic things you can do.
Here is an example of
using text mate rules.
So text mate is another editor that
defined a really comprehensive and
complete way of editing themes at a far
more granular level, where you can say.
Yeah, I want to apply
the following styles to just
variables when they are arguments
to functions or parameters.
And only then should
you make them bold and
red.
>> Mike North: So
you have far more knobs to turn once
you get into these text-made styles.
And then finally down here,
it's an example of,
maybe we don't wanna change the color of
something, but we can change its style and
we will see why that might
be interesting in a moment.